docs: add release guide to documentation (#434)
tier4/nebula: docs/contributing/cutting_releases.md

---
icon: lucide/rocket
---

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

# Cutting Releases

Release rules at one glance:

* Releases are always cut from the `main` branch.
* Nebula follows [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/).
* Version tags are prefixed with `v`, e.g. `v1.2.3`.
* Nebula uses [Bloom and Catkin](https://docs.ros.org/en/humble/How-To-Guides/Releasing/Releasing-a-Package.html)
  to manage releases and changelogs.
* Releases and tags are never deleted or modified after creation. If a mistake is made, a new
  release should be created to fix it.

## Release Process

The below steps have to be followed strictly for every release:

1. Ensure all changes for the release are merged into `main`.
2. Follow the [Subsequent Releases](https://docs.ros.org/en/humble/How-To-Guides/Releasing/Subsequent-Releases.html)
   guide to update the changelog, bump the version, and create pull requests to rosdistro.
    1. Update changelogs using `catkin_generate_changelog`, then PR and merge to `main`.

>     2. Bump the version using `catkin_prepare_release` directly on `main`.

Reviewer: Our main is protected, so can you do this without changing settings anywhere? Or is this overridden somehow?

>     3. Notify the ROS 2 ecosystem using `bloom-release`. Do this once per supported ROS 2 distribution,

Reviewer: Can only repository admins do this?

       e.g. `bloom-release --rosdistro humble nebula`, then `bloom-release --rosdistro jazzy nebula`.
3. Create a new GitHub release on the [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/tier4/nebula/releases/new)
   page, using the already created tag from step 2.

!!! warning "Check for breaking changes"
    As per the semantic versioning rules, the major/minor/patch version should be bumped based

>     on the type of changes in the release. Familiarize with [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    on the type of changes in the release. Please familiarize yourself with [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/),
```

>     and ensure to bump the version correctly in accordance with the changes in the release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    and ensure the version is bumped correctly in accordance with the changes in the release.
```
